# You can find more information about the datasets:

###

Dataset Exercise: 

This dataset is from a project: Preventing nutrition deserts for the urban poor within the transforming food retail environment in Vietnam

Nutrition insecurity among a growing number of urban poor in modernizing Southeast Asian metropolises is a critical issue. Serving to enlarge the capacity of local authorities in planning and implementing all-inclusive food-safe and nutrition-sensitive food retailing infrastructures, our proposed research seeks to answer the question ‘why do the urban poor eat the food they do’, in the context of transformations in the food retail environment and the organization of daily life. We want to understand in what way progressing retail modernization and restructuration policies impact the diet diversity and quality of the urban poor that depend on daily food shopping (purchasing foods on a day-to-day basis) often due to irregular and fluctuating daily income levels due to the nature of employment. Serving as a case in point for similar developments in SEA, our research focuses on Hanoi, the capital of lower-middle income country (LMIC) Vietnam, listed among the world’s fastest growing economies. Our research specifically focuses on women, since nutrient deficiencies are particularly prevalent among women of reproductive age. Women are often the primary decision maker and mostly responsible for food purchases, meal preparation and household food allocation. They are thus key-actors in understanding and addressing nutrition vulnerability.

You can find out more about the dataset at this link: https://www.wur.nl/en/project/Retail-Diversity-for-Dietary-Diversity-RD4DD.htm

###

Dataset Demo: 

This dataset is from a paper titled: Adaptation of the small intestine to microbial enteropathogens in Zambian children with stunting

Environmental enteropathy is a major contributor to growth faltering in millions of children in Africa and South Asia. We carried out a longitudinal, observational and interventional study in Lusaka, Zambia, of 297 children with stunting (aged 2–17 months at recruitment) and 46 control children who had good growth (aged 1–5 months at recruitment). Control children contributed data only at baseline. Children were provided with nutritional supplementation of daily cornmeal-soy blend, an egg and a micronutrient sprinkle, and were followed up to 24 months of age. Children whose growth did not improve over 4–6 months of nutritional supplementation were classified as having non-responsive stunting. We monitored microbial translocation from the gut lumen to the bloodstream in the cohort with non-responsive stunting (n = 108) by measuring circulating lipopolysaccharide (LPS), LPS-binding protein and soluble CD14 at baseline and when non-response was declared. We found that microbial translocation decreased with increasing age, such that LPS declined in 81 (75%) of 108 children with non-responsive stunting, despite sustained pathogen pressure and ongoing intestinal epithelial damage. We used confocal laser endomicroscopy and found that mucosal leakiness also declined with age. However, expression of brush border enzyme, nutrient transporter and mucosal barrier genes in intestinal biopsies did not change with age or correlate with biomarkers of microbial translocation. We propose that environmental enteropathy arises through adaptation to pathogen-mediated epithelial damage. Although environmental enteropathy reduces microbial translocation, it does so at the cost of impaired growth. The reduced epithelial surface area imposed by villus blunting may explain these findings.

You can find out more about the dataset at this link: https://zenodo.org/record/4571669